# Gen2 Profiles - Proposal 3

This is an update to [Proposal 2 for Gen2 Profiles](gen2_profiles_proposal_2.md) design
to add the ability to associate (attach) multiple AppProfiles to a cluster.

## Summary of changes

* The **arlon.io/profiles** annotation replaces the **arlon.io/profile** label
  in an Arlon cluster (represented by an ArgoCD Application resource with label
  `arlon-type=cluster-app`). The annotation stores a comma separated list of
  AppProfile names. An annotation was chosen instead of a label because
  Kubernetes label values cannot contain the comma (`,`) character.

* Arlon applications are still implemented as ArgoCD ApplicationSets.
  But the **List** generator replaces the Clusters generator used in Proposal 2.
  The List generator allows the Arlon controller to generate the precise
  list of clusters associated with an Arlon Application, which is computed from
  the profile-to-application and cluster-to-profile mappings at any given time.
  Every generated Application resource receives these two template parameters:
  * `cluster_name`: The cluster's name
  * `cluster_server`: The URL of the cluster's API server.
  The initial manifest generated by `arlon app create` (see below) is configured
  to set any generated Application resource's name to `<cluster_name>-app-<app_name>`.
  The user is free to change it by editing the ApplicationSet resource directly

* New CLI commands and features
  * `arlon app create appName repoUrl repoPath [flags]` creates an ApplicationSet
     manifest that satisfies the requirements to serve as an initial Arlon Application.
     In particular, it includes a `List` generator with an `Elements` list of zero items.
     The Arlon AppProfile controller will update the list dynamically as needed.
     The manifest is applied to the management cluster immediately unless the user
     specifies the `--output-yaml` option, in which case the manifest can be saved,
     edited, and applied later.
  * `arlon cluster list` now displays the app profile list in the `APP_PROFILES` column.
  * `arlon cluster setappprofiles <clusterName> <commaSeparatedAppProfileNames` allows
     a user to set the list of app profiles associated with a cluster. Setting the
     list to an empty string removes all app profiles from the cluster.
  * No CRUD operations are provided for Arlon AppProfile resources since they are simple
    resources that are best manipulated and applied as manifests with `kubectl`.
    The one exception is `arlon appprofile list`, which is a convenience and shows
    the list of apps for each AppProfile, and the `Status.healthy` field.

## Testing

The reconciliation algorithm is tested by a comprensive unit test located at `pkg/appprofile/appprofile_test.go`
